# Discworld

Emojiland is a browser-based world generator, explorer, and social expierment written in Typescript. Users can explore and chat in a pseudo-randomly generated world map with others in real-time.

The map is generated by using a cellular automaton grid to determine land or no land. The resulting cell grid then has an elevation map applied to it to determine the relative height of the land using a psuedo number generator and a variant of the perlin noise algorithm to interpolate between samples. The elevation of map tile determines the colour and representation in the browser:

- Gray, rock, high elevation
- Green, grass, medium elevation
- Brown, dirt, low elevation
- Blue, water, 'sea level' elevation
- Black, nothing

# Installation

In order to install and run the generator, you can download the repository .zip by clicking the "Clone or Download" button above and extracting the files to a folder, or use the command `git clone https://github.com/jorsi/emojiland` in your terminal. Afterwards, from a command line terminal in the project folder enter the following commands:

```
npm install
npm start
```

Emojiland can now be accessed with your browser at http://localhost:3000.

# How to use

##### Movement
You can move around the map using the mouse by right-clicking the screen in the direction you want to scroll. 

##### Chat and Generating Maps
The command line is at the bottom of the screen and you can use it to chat with any users on screen or issue a command for generating a new map. You do not need to focus on the command line in order to type -- all keyboard inputs will be directed towards the input.

Normal chat is as simple as typing and pressing enter. All users in your window should be able to see your message and you can see theirs.

To issue the command to regenerate a new world map, you can type the following command:

`/generate seed`
Where `seed` is any word, phrase, or alphanumeric combination. You will probably need to reload the page to see the new map correctly.

# Issues

If the Emojiland page shows nothing, try to move in any direction. The position of your character may be out of sync with the map. If this doesn't work, you can try reloading the page and/or issuing the generate command for a new map.
